tutorial/how-to-buy-and-stake-clam.md, before:

# How to buy and stake CLAM

## What is CLAM? <a href="what-is-clam" id="what-is-clam"></a>

OtterClam is an OHM fork on the Polygon network that aims to become **A Reservation Currency Memecoin**. Polygon network is an ethereum layer 2 blockchain. To start interaction with Polygon, you need to get some $MATIC first.

In this tutorial, we will show you how to buy CLAM from exchanges or other chains.

### From Exchanges <a href="from-exchanges" id="from-exchanges"></a>

There are many exchanges support Polygon withdrawal. Here is a list:

* [Binance](https://www.binance.com)
* [Crypto.com](https://crypto.com)
* [ASCENDEX](https://ascendex.com)
* [OKeX](https://www.okex.com)
* [KuKoin](https://www.kucoin.com)
* [MEXC](https://www.mexc.com)
* [Gate.io](https://www.gate.io)

You can find more CEXs on here [https://awesomepolygon.com/cex/](https://awesomepolygon.com/cex/)

#### Buy $CLAM on QuickSwap

1. Get some $MATICs from CEX listed above
2. Go to QuickSwap, the dex on the Polygon network [https://quickswap.exchange/#/swap?outputCurrency=0x4d6A30EFBE2e9D7A9C143Fce1C5Bb30d9312A465](https://quickswap.exchange/#/swap?outputCurrency=0xC250e9987A032ACAC293d838726C511E6E1C029d)
3. Click “Switch to Polygon”\
   ![](https://i.imgur.com/u2LpwRp.jpg)\

4. Add & switch network to Polygon in metamask\
   ![](https://i.imgur.com/6lRShrv.png)
5. Withdraw MATIC from the exchange you use for your wallet. The wallet address should be the same as the one you have for Ethereum.
6. Swap some $MATIC to **$CLAM**. Attention: Don’t swap all! You should save some $MATIC for future gas fees, 0.1\~1 $MATIC is enough for plenty of transactions.
7. Go to OtterClam webapp [https://app.otterclam.finance/#/stake](https://app.otterclam.finance/#/stake)
8. Approve & Stake all your **$CLAM**s.&#x20;
9. Sit and chill.\
   \


![](https://i.imgur.com/C6VrXJY.png)

_Note: Your fresh stake CLAM will be in warmup for 2 epochs. **$CLAM** in warmup still earns rebase rewards but you can’t unstake it. After 2 epochs, you can claim your warmup and get sCLAM in your wallet._

### Trading for CLAM from other chains <a href="trading-for-clam-from-other-chains" id="trading-for-clam-from-other-chains"></a>

1. Follow the above steps to add the Polygon network to your metamask.
2. Get some $MATIC as for gas fees from the Matic faucet [https://matic.supply/](https://matic.supply) or [https://macncheese.finance/matic-polygon-mainnet-faucet.php](https://macncheese.finance/matic-polygon-mainnet-faucet.php)
3. Bridge your assets to Polygon with one of the following bridges:

#### Ethereum <a href="ethereum" id="ethereum"></a>

* Use PoS bridge [https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge](https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge)
* Use above CEX to bridge your eth/usdc to Polygon

#### BSC <a href="bsc" id="bsc"></a>

* The best option is to use Binance as a bridge.
* DeFi bridge: [https://bridge.evodefi.com/?token=USDC](https://bridge.evodefi.com/?token=USDC)

#### Solana <a href="solana" id="solana"></a>

* AllBridge: [https://allbridge.io/](https://allbridge.io)

#### Other chains Bridge <a href="other-chains-bridge" id="other-chains-bridge"></a>

* AnySwap: [https://anyswap.exchange/](https://anyswap.exchange)
* AllBridge: [https://allbridge.io/](https://allbridge.io)

Commit message:

GitBook: [#94] Added section to Intro and Memecoin reference removal

tutorial/how-to-buy-and-stake-clam.md, after:

# How to buy and stake CLAM

## What is CLAM? <a href="#what-is-clam" id="what-is-clam"></a>

CLAM is a Polygon-based token that supports the entire OtterClam ecosystem. From staking and bonding mechanisms, to governance and PAW Market purchases, CLAM is the de facto currency behind every transaction in the Otter Kingdom.

The Polygon network is a layer 2 solution for the Ethereum blockchain. Although Polygon was created to alleviate traffic from the Ethereum network and allow smooth interactions between the two blockchains, it's naive token, MATIC, is now considered to be so unique that it no longer meets the ERC-20 standard.&#x20;

Since CLAM is built on Polygon, you'll need to acquire some $MATIC first.

In this tutorial, we will show you how to buy CLAM from exchanges or other chains.

### From Exchanges <a href="#from-exchanges" id="from-exchanges"></a>

There are many exchanges support Polygon withdrawal. Here is a list:

* [Binance](https://www.binance.com)
* [Crypto.com](https://crypto.com)
* [ASCENDEX](https://ascendex.com)
* [OKeX](https://www.okex.com)
* [KuKoin](https://www.kucoin.com)
* [MEXC](https://www.mexc.com)
* [Gate.io](https://www.gate.io)

You can find more CEXs on here [https://awesomepolygon.com/cex/](https://awesomepolygon.com/cex/)

#### Buy $CLAM on QuickSwap

1. Get some $MATICs from CEX listed above
2. Go to QuickSwap, the dex on the Polygon network [https://quickswap.exchange/#/swap?outputCurrency=0x4d6A30EFBE2e9D7A9C143Fce1C5Bb30d9312A465](https://quickswap.exchange/#/swap?outputCurrency=0xC250e9987A032ACAC293d838726C511E6E1C029d)
3. Click “Switch to Polygon”\
   ![](https://i.imgur.com/u2LpwRp.jpg)\\
4. Add & switch network to Polygon in metamask\
   ![](https://i.imgur.com/6lRShrv.png)
5. Withdraw MATIC from the exchange you use for your wallet. The wallet address should be the same as the one you have for Ethereum.
6. Swap some $MATIC to **$CLAM**. Attention: Don’t swap all! You should save some $MATIC for future gas fees, 0.1\~1 $MATIC is enough for plenty of transactions.
7. Go to OtterClam webapp [https://app.otterclam.finance/#/stake](https://app.otterclam.finance/#/stake)
8. Approve & Stake all your **$CLAM**s.
9. Sit and chill.\
   \\

![](https://i.imgur.com/C6VrXJY.png)

_Note: Your fresh stake CLAM will be in warmup for 2 epochs. **$CLAM** in warmup still earns rebase rewards but you can’t unstake it. After 2 epochs, you can claim your warmup and get sCLAM in your wallet._

### Trading for CLAM from other chains <a href="#trading-for-clam-from-other-chains" id="trading-for-clam-from-other-chains"></a>

1. Follow the above steps to add the Polygon network to your metamask.
2. Get some $MATIC as for gas fees from the Matic faucet [https://matic.supply/](https://matic.supply) or [https://macncheese.finance/matic-polygon-mainnet-faucet.php](https://macncheese.finance/matic-polygon-mainnet-faucet.php)
3. Bridge your assets to Polygon with one of the following bridges:

#### Ethereum <a href="#ethereum" id="ethereum"></a>

* Use PoS bridge [https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge](https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge)
* Use above CEX to bridge your eth/usdc to Polygon

#### BSC <a href="#bsc" id="bsc"></a>

* The best option is to use Binance as a bridge.
* DeFi bridge: [https://bridge.evodefi.com/?token=USDC](https://bridge.evodefi.com/?token=USDC)

#### Solana <a href="#solana" id="solana"></a>

* AllBridge: [https://allbridge.io/](https://allbridge.io)

#### Other chains Bridge <a href="#other-chains-bridge" id="other-chains-bridge"></a>

* AnySwap: [https://anyswap.exchange/](https://anyswap.exchange)
* AllBridge: [https://allbridge.io/](https://allbridge.io)
